Vernis yen the Sun will one day set on
this world and a new dawn will rise out
of the ashes of violence hope will rise
[Music]
can you feel it as it transmutes from
something that we only used to be able
to dream up to something that exists in
front of us something we can see
something that is tangible change and
change that is coming
[Music]
Clown College
I'm not going to enroll in that Clown
College there advertisement had no
effect on me whatsoever now we as a
movement exists in the millions of
individuals but together we move as one
and these industries the ones who
exploit others they feel what we feel
and they fear it and they fear us and
they should fear us for every single day
our numbers grow stronger our conviction
grows harder and that change becomes
ever more inevitable that it was the day
previous and they fear us because they
know that we will not stop fighting that
we will never take a days rest and we
will never take a days break until the
animals are liberated from the shackles
and our species has imprisoned them
within
[Music]
[Applause]
hey the section you're supposed to be
monitoring is on fire clowns are funny
the world that we want stops even wou
exist out there in front of us
in the palm of our hands all we have to
do is do people have stood in my way
long enough I'm going to Clown College
now what lies ahead of us will not
always be easy we will feel pain will
feel anguish will feel despair and we
may even feel hopelessness these
industries will spread lies they will
try to some people they will try to
deceive us they will question our
integrity they will question our
individual characteristics and our
motives and they will try and drag our
image through the mud to try and make us
no longer credible but we have one thing
the truth and that is all the real needs
[Applause]
baddest yen long before I got involved
with vegan activism I was an Orthodox
tera vaada Buddhist and I wasn't just a
little bit involved in that religion I
was a scholar of their religion
I took the religion very seriously the
types of Buddhist religious practices
that James ASPI and other mainstream
vegans engage in like he passed and
meditation I regarded as decadent and
corrupt I read the original Canon the
ancient philosophy I knew the whole
history of Buddhism and I knew when I
cared about was going on in the
contemporary politics their religion
Buddhism as it was in the 21st century
also and every so often this question
came up at one Buddhist monastery or
another whether that was in the United
States in Sri Lanka in Taiwan in
Thailand or places in between the the
question of the authoritarian aesthetic
you might even say the aesthetics of
fascism replacing the aesthetics of
democracy now it was one very successful
Buddhist leader in Thailand one Buddhist
monk who admitted openly that he had sat
down and watched the the Nazi propaganda
films showing things like the Nuremberg
rallies showing off certain style of
architecture grandiose nationalistic
architecture crowds marching in lockstep
cheering in unison and this monk in
Thailand I could name him I could give a
link to websites and articles about this
phenomena he openly admitted that he had
tried to imitate that in how he set up
his own I don't know how to says rituals
celebrations festivals and indeed even
the architecture around the new temples
that he built it was very rare to have
someone say that openly but implicitly
it's very common to go to a Buddhist
monastery for example in Taiwan so this
is ethnically and culturally Chinese
Buddhism and to see that they are
imitating
military discipline a military aesthetic
and certainly at least in the
architecture a kind of nationalistic
grandeur you know and I was in a
position to really sit with the Buddhist
monks sit with the authority figures and
say to them you know this is not what
the Buddha wanted this is very
explicitly not what's written in the
Pali Canon to a very large extent this
is everything that was forbidden and
warned against in the ancient texts now
aside from the rules based morality of
the ancient texts which you know
ultimately is neither here nor there the
ancient texts basically say that
Buddhist monks are never allowed to wear
shoes and things like that
almost everyone seems to ignore this you
meet a few very serious monks going
around barefoot but there were a lot of
ideas in the the rule-based side of the
morality nobody cares about but on this
genuinely philosophical side of things I
would say things like look both in the
ancient texts and in these pamphlets are
handing out this propaganda the modern
propaganda you're creating based on and
inspired by the ancient texts you
present Buddhism as the philosophy of
the mind as a religion that's built on
detachments and compassion and these
open-ended philosophical dialogues and
of course by the way there's some
cherry-picking going on and going
through the ancient texts and choosing
those dialogues choosing those examples
that are kind of the most philosophical
the most appealing to a modern reader
and the most kind of genuinely Socratic
are open-ended people engaging in
philosophical discussion about both
philosophy and I'd say nothing like that
ever happens
at this monastery nobody ever sits down
and has a philosophical debate visitors
don't come here and ask questions the
way we have in these ancient dialogues
like VAT regatta and other Buddhist
monks coming up and really questioning
and cross-examining the Buddha and
disagreeing with the Buddha and
by the way even at the end of the
dialogue they don't always agree with
the Buddha they don't leave convinced
sometimes they leave angry they're not
satisfied with the the debate they had
at all like okay so you're claiming this
is a religion built on these
philosophical debates but when people
come here and see this what do they
really see militarism
military style self-discipline one voice
speaks the crowd cheers marching
marching in uniform
marching in lockstep theme is playing
the architectural statements even the
decorative arts on all of it organized
to make this frankly authoritarian
declaration to the onlookers and the
participants the part that we walk down
together does not last forever and at
the end of that path is total salvation
and liberation
so never look back never look forwards
and defiantly much as fast as you can
are you with me the yearning for that
authoritarian aesthetic comes from a
very crude belief in the same thing that
earthling IDI says to you at the end of
this video
well we have one thing the truth quote
we have the truth not that we have the
questions that we have the answers that
we have the truth and every pathetic
cult group and religious movement and
fringe political ideology in the history
of the human race has believed that and
they have all been wrong it's ultimately
threatening to the viability of the
movement to hear earthling heed warning
you that
we ought not to question the credibility
of our leaders that the enemies of the
movement will lead us to question the
credibility of our leaders and our
methods what we're doing and my point is
the exact opposite I think that even a
well running business is asking those
questions all the time is what we're
doing effective is what we're doing
credible is everything you know even
whether you're running a restaurant or a
factory whatever humanitarian agency
handing out rice to starving people you
should be constantly doing outcome
evaluation you should be constantly
questioning the uncertainty and doubt
and self-examination questioning
credibility of your own assumptions um
that should never stop and I think as
soon as you take that step into
authoritarianism well it's certainly a
step the vegan movement doesn't need to
take this is not a military operation
guys I said recently and criticizing
Paul Bashir cube of truth there's no
justification for these hierarchical
relationships not in the vegan movement
not in a movement that's based on
personal consumer choice boycott getting
organized public outreach and education
etc etc ultimately lobbying for changes
in government policy there's no real
justification for this aesthetic that
these these people are embracing there's
no justification except fundraising
they'll question our integrity they will
question our individual characteristics
and our motives those are questions that
big organizations and even big
corporations are asking all the time and
they don't start off with a delusion we
have the truth they start off instead
with the procedure of saying hey let's
ask all the right questions and maybe
half of the time we can come up with
half the right answers and later on
we engage in self-examination and even
satire we're gonna figure out where we
went wrong we're gonna discover what our
mistakes were and then we can do better
next time
you don't learn by making mistakes you
learn by noticing them and part of what
I'm engaged in in satire and critique on
this channel is indeed helping some of
my fellow vegans to wake up and notice
the mistakes that have maybe receded
into the background as baseline
assumptions for what veganism is but
there's no one simple answer for what
the vegan movement is supposed to be and
if we're gonna make progress I don't
want to make progress blindly I want to
make it with my eyes wide open
[Music]
evolution